feat(website): new documentation (#1048)
algolia/docsearch: packages/website/docs/what-is-docsearch.md

---
title: What is DocSearch?
sidebar_label: Getting started
authors:
  - name: Clément Vannicatte
    title: Software Engineer @ Algolia
    url: https://github.com/shortcuts
---

## Why?

We have created DocSearch because we are scratching our own itch. As developers, we spent a lot of time reading documentation, and it can be hard to find relevant information in large documentations. We're not blaming anyone here; building a good search is a challenge.

It happens that we are a search company and we actually have a lot of experience building search interfaces. We wanted to use those skills to help others. That's why we created a way to automatically extract content from tech documentation and make it available to everyone from the first keystroke.

## Quick description

We split DocSearch into a crawler and a frontend library.

> - Crawls are handled by the [Algolia Crawler][4] and sheculed to run once a week, you can then trigger new crawls yourself and monitor them directly from the [Crawler interface][5], which also offers a live editor where you can maintain your config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Crawls are handled by the [Algolia Crawler][4] and scheduled to run once a week by default, you can then trigger new crawls yourself and monitor them directly from the [Crawler interface][5], which also offers a live editor where you can maintain your config.
```

- The frontend library is built on top of [Algolia Autocomplete][6] and provide an immersive search experience through its modal.

## How to feature DocSearch?

DocSearch is entirely free and automated. The one thing we'll need from you is to read [our checklist][2] and apply! After that, we'll share with you the snippet needed to add DocSearch to your website. We ask that you keep the "Search by Algolia" link displayed.

DocSearch is [one of our ways][1] to give back to the open source community for everything it did for us already.

You can now [apply to the program][3]

> [1]: https://opencollective.com/algolia

Reviewer: We might want to talk about this with DevRel, it's been 2years since last donation

Author: I don't have much details on it but indeed!
